Add cookie notice article (#4955)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/cookie-notice-best-practices/index.md

notices:

*   **Top-of-screen cookie notices:** Top-of-screen cookie notices are a very
    common source of layout shift. If a cookie notice is inserted into the DOM
    after the surrounding page has already rendered, it will push the page
    elements below it further down the page. This type of layout shift can be
    eliminated by reserving space in the DOM for the consent notice. If this is
    not a feasible solution—for example, if the dimensions of your cookie
    notice vary by geography, consider using a sticky footer or modal to
    display the cookie notice. Because both of these alternative approaches
    display the cookie notice as an "overlay" on top of the rest of the page,
    the cookie notice should not cause content shifts when it loads.
*   **Animations**: Many cookie notices use animations—for example, "sliding in"
    a cookie notice is a common design pattern. Depending on how these effects
    are implemented, they can cause layout shifts. For more information, see
    [Debugging layout shifts](https://web.dev/debugging-layout-shifts/).
*   **Fonts**: Late-loading fonts can block render and or cause layout shifts.

>     This phenomena is typically more appararent on slow connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This phenomena is more apparent on slow connections.
```

#### Advanced loading optimizations

These techniques take more work to implement but can further optimize the
loading of cookie notice scripts:

*   Caching and serving third-party cookie notice scripts from your own servers
    can improve the delivery speed of these resources.

> *   [Service
>     workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API/Using_Service_Workers)
>     can be used to have more control over the [fetching and caching of
>     third-party
>     scripts](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/guides/handle-third-party-requests)
>     such as cookie notice scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Using [service
    workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API/Using_Service_Workers)
    can allow you more control over the [fetching and caching of
    third-party
    scripts](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/guides/handle-third-party-requests)
    such as cookie notice scripts.
```

## Performance measurement

Cookie notices can impact performance measurements. This section discusses some
of these implications and techniques for mitigating them.

### Real User Monitoring (RUM)

Some analytics and RUM tools use cookies to collect performance data. In the
event that a user declines usage of cookies these tools cannot capture
performance data.

Sites should be aware of this phenomenon; it is also worthwhile to understand
the mechanisms that your RUM tooling uses to collect its data. However, for the
typical site this discrepancy probably isn't a cause for alarm given the
direction and magnitude of the data skew. Cookie usage is not a technical
requirement for performance measurement. The
[web-vitals](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals) JavaScript library is
an example of a library that does not use cookies.

> It's also worth noting that depending on how your site uses cookies to collect
> performance data (that is, whether the cookies contain personal information), as
> well as the legislation in question, the use of cookies for performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on how your site uses cookies to collect
performance data (that is, whether the cookies contain personal information), as
well as the legislation in question, the use of cookies for performance
```

measurement might not be subject to the same legislative requirements as some of
the cookies used on your site for other purposes—for example, advertising
cookies. Some sites choose to break out performance cookies as a separate
category of cookies when asking for user consent.

### Synthetic monitoring

> Without custom configuration, most synthetic tools will only measure the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without custom configuration, most synthetic tools (such as Lighthouse and WebPageTest) will only measure the
```

experience of a first-time user who has not responded to a cookie consent
notice. However, not only do variations in cache state (for example, an initial

> visit versus a repeat visit) need to be considered when collection performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visit versus a repeat visit) need to be considered when collecting performance
```

difficult to perfectly simulate in lab environments. For this reason, it is
important to make [RUM
data](https://web.dev/user-centric-performance-metrics/#how-metrics-are-measured)
the cornerstone of your performance benchmarking, rather than synthetic tooling.

### Testing cookie notices with WebPageTest

#### Scripting

You can use scripting to have a [WebPageTest](https://webpagetest.org/) "click"
the cookie consent banner while collecting a trace.

Add a script by going to the **Script** tab. The script below navigates to the URL
to be tested and then clicks the DOM element with the id `cookieButton`. 

```shell
combineSteps
navigate    %URL%
clickAndWait    id=cookieButton
```

When using this script be aware that:

*   `combineSteps` tells WebPageTest to "combine" the results of the scripting
    steps that follow into a single set of traces and measurements. Running this
    script without `combineSteps` can also be useful—separate traces make it
    easy to see whether resources were loaded before or after cookie acceptance.
*   `%URL%` is a WebPageTest convention that refers to the URL that is being
    tested.

> *   clickAndWait follows the format `clickAndWait attribute=Value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `clickAndWait` follows the format `clickAndWait attribute=Value`.
```

Reviewer: Can you expand a bit on `clickAndWait`? Something along the lines "tells WPT to click on an element specified with `attribute=value` and wait X amount of time before collecting the measurements"

If you've configured this script correctly, the screenshot taken by WebPageTest
should not show a cookie notice (the cookie notice has been accepted).

> For more information on WebPageTest scripting, check out the
> [documentation](https://github.com/WPO-Foundation/webpagetest-docs/blob/master/user/Scripting.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on WebPageTest scripting, check out [WebPageTest 
documentation](https://github.com/WPO-Foundation/webpagetest-docs/blob/master/user/Scripting.md).
```

#### Set cookies

To run WebPageTest with a cookie set, go to the **Advanced** tab and add the
cookie header to the **Custom headers** field:

> {% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/qSccrAxF0H4yoSzYRYdh.png", alt="Screeshot showing the 'Custom headers' field in WebPageTest", width="800", height="181" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/qSccrAxF0H4yoSzYRYdh.png", alt="Screeshot showing the 'Custom headers' field in WebPageTest", width="800", height="181", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

#### Change the test location

To change the test location used by WebPageTest, click the **Test Location**
dropdown located on the **Advanced Testing** tab.

> {% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/J27NcDQ5LTtXYloaA1DN.png", alt="Screenshot of the 'Test Location' dropdown in WebPageTest", width="800", height="267" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/J27NcDQ5LTtXYloaA1DN.png", alt="Screenshot of the 'Test Location' dropdown in WebPageTest", width="800", height="267", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

### Testing cookie notices with Lighthouse

> Setting cookies on a Lighthouse run can be used as a mechanism for getting a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting cookies on a Lighthouse run can serve as a mechanism for getting a
```

page into a particular state for testing by Lighthouse. Lighthouse's cookie
behavior varies slightly by context (DevTools, CLI, or PageSpeed Insights).

#### DevTools

Cookies are not cleared when Lighthouse is run from DevTools. However, other
types of storage are cleared by default. This behavior can be changed by using
the **Clear Storage** option in the **Lighthouse** settings panel.

> {% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/nmNDeSoGEQUVKeTP7q7R.png", alt="Screenshot higlighting the Lighthouse 'Clear Storage' option", width="800", height="304" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/j2RDdG43oidUy6AL6LovThjeX9c2/nmNDeSoGEQUVKeTP7q7R.png", alt="Screenshot higlighting the Lighthouse 'Clear Storage' option", width="800", height="304", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

#### CLI

> Running Lighthouse from the CLI uses a fresh Chrome instance. Thus, no cookies
> are set by default. To run Lighthouse from the CLI with a particular cookie set,
> use the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running Lighthouse from the CLI uses a fresh Chrome instance, so no cookies
are set by default. To run Lighthouse from the CLI with a particular cookie set,
use the following
```

[command](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse#cli-options):

```shell
lighthouse <url> --extra-headers "{\"Cookie\":\"cookie1=abc; cookie2=def; \_id=foo\"}" 
```

For more information on setting custom request headers in Lighthouse CLI, see
[Running Lighthouse on Authenticated
Pages](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/blob/master/docs/authenticated-pages.md).

#### PageSpeed Insights

Running Lighthouse from PageSpeed Insights uses a fresh Chrome instance and does
not set any cookies. PageSeed Insights cannot be configured to set particular
cookies.

> ## Other considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## User experience 
```

the cornerstone of your performance benchmarking, rather than synthetic tooling.

### Testing cookie notices with WebPageTest

#### Scripting

You can use scripting to have a [WebPageTest](https://webpagetest.org/) "click"
the cookie consent banner while collecting a trace.

Add a script by going to the **Script** tab. The script below navigates to the URL
to be tested and then clicks the DOM element with the id `cookieButton`. 

{% Aside 'caution' %}
WebPageTest scripts are
[tab-delimited](https://github.com/WPO-Foundation/webpagetest-docs/blob/main/src/scripting.md#scripting).
{% endAside %}

```shell
combineSteps
navigate    %URL%
clickAndWait    id=cookieButton
```

When using this script be aware that:

*   `combineSteps` tells WebPageTest to "combine" the results of the scripting
    steps that follow into a single set of traces and measurements. Running this
    script without `combineSteps` can also be useful—separate traces make it
    easy to see whether resources were loaded before or after cookie acceptance.
*   `%URL%` is a WebPageTest convention that refers to the URL that is being
    tested.

> *   `clickAndWait` follows the format `clickAndWait attribute=Value`.
>     `clickAndWait` tells WebPageTest to click on the element indicated by
>     `attribute=value` and wait for the subsequent browser activity to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `clickAndWait` tells WebPageTest to click on the element indicated by
    `attribute=value` and wait for the subsequent browser activity to complete.
    It follows the format `clickAndWait attribute=Value`.
```

before JavaScript execution.

#### Establish an early connection with the cookie notice origin

All sites that load their cookie notice scripts from a third-party location
should use either the `dns-prefetch` or `preconnect` resource hints to help
establish an early connection with the origin that hosts cookie notice
resources. For more information, see [Establish network connections early to
improve perceived page speed](https://web.dev/preconnect-and-dns-prefetch/).

```html
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://cdn.cookie-notice.com/">
```

{% Aside %}
It is common for cookie notices to load resources from multiple origins—
for example, loading resources from both
`www.cookie-notice.com` and
`cdn.cookie-notice.com`. Separate origins require separate connections and
therefore separate resource hints.
{% endAside %}

#### Preload cookie notices as appropriate

Some sites would benefit from using the
[`preload`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Preloading_content)
resource hint to load their cookie notice script. The `preload` resource hint
informs the browser to initiate an early request for the specified resource.

```html

> <link rel="prefetch" href="https://www.cookie-notice.com/cookie-script.js">

Reviewer 2: Since the surrounding paragraphs are talking about preloading, perhaps that's what was meant here as well?

```diff
- <link rel="prefetch" href="https://www.cookie-notice.com/cookie-script.js">
+ <link rel="preload" as="script" href="https://www.cookie-notice.com/cookie-script.js">
```
